# My Fantasy Heartbreaker

Amazingly, after roughly 45 years, I have not found the fantasy game that I think gets it all right.  Allow me to explain.

## The Backstory

My introduction to D&D was in the basement of a friend's friend near Ann Arbor in summer of '82.  I don't remember anything about seeing it the first time, but I was absolutely _smitten_ with a game that required a set of books and dice to play.  Later that year, Santa brought me the Basic and Expert sets and the  three 1e books (thanks, Mom).  My younger brother and I just did whatever we wanted.  Rerolling and rerolling until our stats were crazy, just loading up on the best gear in the books (I had vorpal swords as backups), killing gargoyles and vampires and dragons, basically "cheating".  I also played in sessions at the local public library, but the only thing I remember about that was it was the first time I saw those gorgeous 1e black-and-white character sheets.  What is it about that era of TSR that just grabs you?  Eventually, after moving to central Illnois, I started playing with a group of friends my freshman year of high school.

I had a lot of fun playing 1e in the '80s, but we were fast and loose, playing with minis and no grid usually, and coming up with crazy justifications to avoid PC deaths, etc.  It wasn't really the intended experience, but we had a blast, and I miss the "effectiveness" of those sessions.  We simply, implicitly and as a group, skipped the boring stuff.  We wanted to roll dice and see big numbers, find loot, and drink a lot of Mountain Dew.  The DM mapped for the party, and we rarely tracked rations or resources in general.  Encumbrance didn't matter once the adventure "ended", so we just divided the loot and put it down on character sheets, magically transported back to Town.  We didn't advance particularly fast, and I think the longest campaign got us to 12-13th level.  I played a Human Figher named Garroth, wielding a Sword +4, Defender.

We all went to college and the group broke up in the early '90s right around when 2e came out.  I liked 2e, but removing Half-Orcs and Assassins was lame, and I didn't like the glossy paper and color illustrations.  Too comic book.  I actually think this is important, by the way: I like my RPGs in black and white.  Part of my adoration of Moldvay stems from the "look and feel" of it.  Speaking of Moldvay, the other thing it just nails for me is the type of fantasy vibe.  Played RaW, and looked at from the standpoint of the resources you get in the books, it's a very period-esque combination of Lost World / Zork / Tolkien, and to me it's by the far the most evocative version of the game.  1e had that "Gygaxian Naturalism" thing going, which was cool, and I observed a few really meticulously-run campaigns of it, and guys at cons counting segments in combat, etc.  But after the group broke up, the book I kept getting out and wanting to read and play with was Moldvay (and I always thought of the Cook rules as more entries on the level tables, and some spells and monsters--basically just more Moldvay).

## The Return

Fast forward more than 20 years to late 2014.  On a whim, since I've not played since the early '90s, I decide to see what's happening with Dungeons and Dragons on the internet.  And, well... wow.  I have access to more games that were current in the '80s than I did then.  3e, 4e, and the OSR happened.  5e came out right when I "rejoined", and I think there's a lot about it to like.  The amount of new stuff I dig and want to play with has exploded in the past 5-10 years.  13th Age has some brilliant stuff in it, as do Dungeon World, Torchbearer, and several others.  The fact that I've gotten to play all of these in person and online is also a straight-up revelation.

## But...

And yet... none of this is quite right, or quite enough, or combined in the best way, and a lot of it is so damn overwrought and level 1 PCs are superheroes now, and, c'mon you can't be serious that you're gonna attack Tiamat....
And, bare as it might be, warts though it might bear, Moldvay, in 2019, is still GOAT.  So let us begin there.